== practice test

Q::
Which resource can you use to manage access, policies, and compliance across
multiple subscriptions?

A::
Managment groups

breakdown::
Managment groups can be used in environments that have multiple subscriptions to
streamline the application of governance conditions.

Resource groups can be used to organize Azure resrources.

Administrative units are used to delegate the administratoin of Azure AD
resources, such as users and gruoops.


Q:: 
you need to allow resources on two different Azure virtual networking to
communicate with each other. what should you configure

A::
peering

breakdown::
You can link virtual networks together by using network peering. Peering enables
resources in each virtual network to communicate with each other.

Q:: 
What can you use to conect Azure resources, such as Azure SQL databases, to an
Azure virtual network

A::
service endpoints

breakdown::
Service endpoints are used to expose Azure services to a virtual network,
providing communication between two. ExpressRoute is used to connect an
on-premises network to Azure. NSGs allows you to configure inbound and outboud
rules for virual networks and machines. Peering allowsyou to connect virtual
network together

Q::
Which storage service offers fully managed file shares in the cloud that are
accesible by using Service Message Blocks (SMB) protocol.

A::
Azure files

breakdown::
Azure Files offers fully managed file shares in the cloud with shares that are
accessible by using Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. Mounting Azure file
share is just like connecting to shares on a local network.

Q::
What can you use to allow a user to manage all the resources in a resource
group?

A::
Azure role-based access controll (RBAC)

breakdown::
Azure RBAC allows you to assign a set of permissions to a user or group.
Resource tags are used to locate and act on resources associated with specific
workloads, environments, business units, and owners. Resource locks prevent the
accidental change or deletion of a resource. Key Vaut is a centralized cloud
service for storing application in a single, central location.


Q::
To which object or level is an Azure role-based access control (RBAC) role
applied?

A::
scope

breakdown::

An Azure RBAC role is applied to a scope, which is a resource or set of
resources that the access applies to. Resource locks prevent the accidental
cahnge or deletion of a resource. Resource tags are used to locate and act on
resource associated with specific workloads, environments, business units, and
owners. Polices enforce different rules accros resource configurations so that
the configurations stay compliant with corporate standards.

Q::
What is high availability in a public cloud environment dependent on?

A::
the service-level agreement (SLA) the you choose.

Q::
In which two deploymen models are customers responsible fro managing systems
that host applications? 

A::
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), and on-premises

=== Saas vs Paas vs Iaas

=== on-premises
    you do everything

==== IaaS
    - you do everything but you're not repsponsible for host, physical network,
      or datacenter

==== Paas
    - not repsponsible for host, physical network, or datacenter

    - partially responsible for network contorls, applications, and identity and
      directory infrastructures

==== Paas
    - not repsponsible for host, physical network,  datacenter, operating
      system, network controls, and applications

    - partially responsible for identity and directory infastructure
